[#341] Introduce "how to connect a facebook page"… (#436)
airyhq/airy: docs/docs/guides/airy-core-and-facebook.md

---
title: How to connect the Airy Core Platform to Facebook
sidebar_label: Connecting Facebook
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

:::tip What you will learn

> - How to connect Airy Core Platform to Facebook

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- How to connect the Airy Core Platform to Facebook
```

:::

> In the Airy Core Platform we consider Facebook to be a [Source](glossary.md#source),
> meaning we can connect it to Airy using a [Channel](glossary.md#channel).
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Airy Core Platform considers Facebook to be a [Source](glossary.md#source),
meaning you can connect a Facebook page to it via a [Channel](glossary.md#channel).

```

> Facebook provides a mechanism that sends messages in a structured format to your local Airy instance.

Reviewer: this means the webhook? If so, I think we can call it like that. It's a technical audience after all

> For us to take advantage of this, we need to connect a local ran instance of Airy to a Facebook App.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For us to take advantage of this, youneed to connect your Airy Core Platform  to a Facebook App.
```

---
title: How to connect the Airy Core Platform to Facebook
sidebar_label: Connecting Facebook
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

:::tip What you will learn
- How to connect Airy Core Platform to Facebook
:::

> In the Airy platform we consider Facebook to be a [Source](../glossary.md#source),

Reviewer: the links shouldn't be relative (as they break if we move the text/doc around)

> In the Airy platform we consider Facebook to be a [Source](../glossary.md#source),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the Airy Core Platform we consider Facebook to be a [Source](../glossary.md#source),
```

meaning we can connect it to Airy using a ![Channel](../glossary.md#channel).

Facebook provides a mechanism that sends messages in a structured format to your local Airy instance.

> For us to take advantage of this, we need to connect a local ran instance of Airy to a Facebook App.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For us to take advantage of this, we need to connect a locally ran instance of Airy to a Facebook App.
```

The connection between those two parts is a connected channel. See ![Channel](../glossary.md#channel)

:::note Prerequisites
- A running Airy Core Platform installation [[Get Started](index.md#bootstrapping-the-airy-core-platform)]
- An approved Facebook App. [[Facebook Apps](https://developers.facebook.com/apps/)]
:::

This guide covers how to connect your Facebook Source so that it can use the
Airy Core Platform to send and receive messages.

## Connecting a Facebook Page

> To connect a page, the first requirement is to have an approved app by Facebook. If you don't have one, you will need to create it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To connect a page, the first requirement is to have an approved Facebook App. If you don't have one, you will need to create it.
```

After creating it, and Facebook approves it you should see it in https://developers.facebook.com/apps/

![Facebook Apps](./apps.jpg)

The `App Id` information is the first step that you should store. This will be used to connect your channel later on.

> Next step is to obtain a page token, so Airy can send messages on behalf of your page. Fastest way to get one is to use the graph explorer that
> Facebook provides ![Graph Explorer](https://developers.facebook.com/tools/explorer/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next step is to obtain a page token, so Airy can send messages on behalf of your page. Fastest way to get one is to use the Facebook Graph Explorer ![Graph Explorer](https://developers.facebook.com/tools/explorer/)
```

On the `User or Page` option, select `Get Page Token` and click on `Generate Access Token`. Use this token to connect your page to Airy.

> ![](./token.jpg)

Reviewer: we have to use the baseURL
